docs: revised dark mode feature page (#26187)
electron/electron: docs/tutorial/dark-mode.md

# Dark Mode

## Overview

## macOS

In macOS 10.14 Mojave, Apple introduced a new [system-wide dark mode][system-wide-dark-mode]
for all macOS computers. If your Electron app has a dark mode, you can make it
follow the system-wide dark mode setting using
[the `nativeTheme` api](../api/native-theme.md).

In macOS 10.15 Catalina, Apple introduced a new "automatic" dark mode option

> for all macOS computers. In order for the `nativeTheme.shouldUseDarkColors` and
> `Tray` APIs to work correctly in this mode on Catalina, you need to either have
> `NSRequiresAquaSystemAppearance` set to `false` in your `Info.plist` file, or
> use Electron `>=7.0.0`. Both [Electron Packager][electron-packager] and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for all macOS computers. In order for the `nativeTheme.shouldUseDarkColors` and
`Tray` APIs to work correctly in this mode on Catalina, you need to use Electron
`>=7.0.0`, or set `NSRequiresAquaSystemAppearance` to `false`
in your `Info.plist` file for older versions. Both [Electron Packager][electron-packager] and
```

Suggestion because we should probably promote upgrading past Electron 6 at this point.

property of the `nativeTheme` module.

## Example

We'll start with a working application from the
[Quick Start Guide](quick-start.md) and add functionality gradually.

First, let's add a page where a user can toggle between light and dark modes.
By default, Electron will follow the system's dark mode preference, so we
initially set the theme source as "System".

Add the following lines to the `index.html` file:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <title>Hello World!</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Security-Policy" content="script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline';" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="./styles.css">
</head>
<body>
    <h1>Hello World!</h1>
    <p>Current theme source: <strong id="theme-source">System</strong></p>

    <button id="toggle-dark-mode">Toggle Dark Mode</button>
    <button id="reset-to-system">Reset to System Theme</button>

    <script src="renderer.js"></script>
  </body>
</body>
</html>
```

Next, add event listeners to the toggle buttons and response handlers. The
listeners will listen for click events and update the content on the web page
accordingly:

> * when the "Toggle Dark Mode" button is clicked, Electron sends the
> `dark-mode:toggle` message (event) to the Main process that triggers theme
> change, and sets the Current theme source based on the response from the
> Main process.
> * when the "Reset to System Theme" button is clicked, Electron sends
> the `dark-mode:system` message (event) to the Main process that tells that
> the theme should be set to default and sets the Current theme source to
> `System`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When the "Toggle Dark Mode" button is clicked, we send the
`dark-mode:toggle` message (event) to tell the Main process to trigger
a theme change, and update the "Current Theme Source" label in the UI based on the
response from the Main process.
* When the "Reset to System Theme" button is clicked, we send
the `dark-mode:system` message (event) to tell the Main process to use
the system color scheme, and update the "Current Theme Source" label
to `System`.
```

Some copy-editing suggestions here:
* Used `update the "Current Theme Source" label` rather than `sets the Current theme source` to avoid any ambiguity about what is being set in the renderer.
* Reworded a bit to make it clearer that we're just telling the Main process that we want to do stuff, not that any of the actions actually happen yet.

To ddd listeners and handlers, add the following lines to the `renderer.js` file:

```js
const { ipcRenderer } = require('electron')

document.getElementById('toggle-dark-mode').addEventListener('click', async () => {
  const isDarkMode = await ipcRenderer.invoke('dark-mode:toggle')
  document.getElementById('theme-source').innerHTML = isDarkMode ? 'Dark' : 'Light'
})

document.getElementById('reset-to-system').addEventListener('click', async () => {
  await ipcRenderer.invoke('dark-mode:system')
  document.getElementById('theme-source').innerHTML = 'System'
})
```

> The next step is to update the `main.js` file to handle events from the
> Renderer process. Depending on the received event (`dark-mode:toggle` or
> `dark-mode:system`), we update the [`nativeTheme.themeSource`](../api/native-theme.md#nativethemethemesource)
> API to apply the desired theme on the system's native UI elements (e.g. context
> menus on macOS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If you run your code at this point, you'll see that your buttons don't do anything
just yet, and your Main process will output an error like this when you click on your
buttons: 
`Error occurred in handler for 'dark-mode:toggle': No handler registered for 'dark-mode:toggle'`
This is normal — we haven't actually touched any `nativeTheme` code yet.

Now that we're done wiring the IPC from the Renderer's side, the next step
is to update the `main.js` file to handle events from the Renderer process.

Depending on the received event, we update the [`nativeTheme.themeSource`](../api/native-theme.md#nativethemethemesource)
property to apply the desired theme on the system's native UI elements (e.g. context
menus) and propagate the preferred color scheme to the Renderer process:
* Upon receiving `dark-mode:toggle`, we check if the dark theme is currently
active using the `nativeTheme.shouldUseDarkColors` property, and set the
`themeSource` to the opposite theme.
* Upon receiving `dark-mode:system`, we reset the `themeSource` to `system`.
```

A few copy-editing suggestions:

* Added a note that the code doesn't work yet after the Renderer step, and expected behaviour at that point.
* Added bullet points explaining each handler to mirror what we had in the last step.
